Vikram Chandra’s 2006 novel Sacred Games is being adapted into a Netflix series. Directed by Vikramaditya Motwane and Anurag Kashyap, the series will explore, as does the novel, the events that follow after the death of Mumbai gangster Ganesh Gaitonde. He has holed himself up in his hideout, and when police officer Sartaj Singh and his men manage to break in, they find Gaitonde dead from a self-inflicted wound. The Research and Analysis Wing takes over the case, suggesting that there is more here than meets the eye. Even as Sartaj investigates Gaitonde’s past, the mafia don resurfaces as a voice from the dead, narrating his side of the story. Here are edited experts from the only encounter between the policeman and the criminal.

The building was a precise cube, white with green windows, on a large plot of land in Kailashpada, which was on the still-developing northern edge of Zone 13. Here, among the heavy machinery groping at swamp, edging Bombay out farther and wider, Sartaj had come to arrest the great Ganesh Gaitonde, gangster, boss of the G-Company and wily and eternal survivor.
Vikram Chandra’s 2006 novel Sacred Games is being adapted into a Netflix series. Directed by Vikramaditya Motwane and Anurag Kashyap, the series will explore, as does the novel, the events that follow after the death of Mumbai gangster Ganesh Gaitonde. He has holed himself up in his hideout, and when police officer Sartaj Singh and his men manage to break in, they find Gaitonde dead from a self-inflicted wound. The Research and Analysis Wing takes over the case, suggesting that there is more here than meets the eye. Even as Sartaj investigates Gaitonde’s past, the mafia don resurfaces as a voice from the dead, narrating his side of the story. Here are edited experts from the only encounter between the policeman and the criminal.

The building was a precise cube, white with green windows, on a large plot of land in Kailashpada, which was on the still-developing northern edge of Zone 13. Here, among the heavy machinery groping at swamp, edging Bombay out farther and wider, Sartaj had come to arrest the great Ganesh Gaitonde, gangster, boss of the G-Company and wily and eternal survivor.
Advertisement

‘How long are you going to stay in there, Gaitonde?’ Sartaj said, craning his neck up. The deep, round video eye of the camera above the door swivelled from side to side and then settled on him.

‘You’re looking tired, Sardar-ji,’ Gaitonde said.

‘I am tired,’ Sartaj said.

‘It’s very hot today,’ Gaitonde said sympathetically. ‘I don’t know how you sardars manage under those turbans.’

There were two Sikh commissioners on the force, but Sartaj was the only Sikh inspector in the whole city, and so was used to being identified by his turban and beard. He was known also for the cut of his pants, which he had tailored at a very film-starry boutique in Bandra, and also for his profile, which had once been featured by Modern Woman magazine in ‘The City’s Best-Looking Bachelors’. Katekar, on the other hand, had a large paunch that sat on top of his belt like a suitcase, and a perfectly square face and very thick hands, and now he came around the corner of the building and stood widelegged, with his hands in his pockets. He shook his head.
